So we just explored the issues with CSX.
The main one being styles leaking across components because of the shared namespace in CSF.
Well as I mentioned CSX and Jess solves this problem.
But before we test out one library we just have to remind ourselves about how we did it before in react
or how we at least capable of doing it and react.
We could write this object and append it to the style property on our div which does solve the CSX problem
because this is also extremely specific.
Doing it this way will never cause Stiles to bleed across our components because when we see how it's
rendered it's applied to a style property on our development and actually not in the CSF namespace.
This is technically CSX and J.S. because we are still technically using JavaScript to render R CSX.
The only issue with this is that we don't have access to all of our selectors because the HDL which
this is does not support all of the selectors that we might want to add to our components right.
So as a result what we need to do is use a C CSX and just library and we can get all of this functional
scoping but in a different way.
So the library we're using is styled components and it's the most popular library.
So in order to use it we just have to include it in our project.
So I did a yarn add style components earlier and now it's in our project and to use it we import in
the styled keyword from styled components.
And this styled keyword allows us to actually generate components and I'll show you how it works.
So first we're gonna declare a new component the same way we normally would write would use our capital
case as we do with our components and then what we say is it's equal to styled dot and then the HDMI
element we want.
So if I want to do I'm going to do styled octave if I wanted a paragraph tag I would you start that
P if I wanted to image tag I would do style dot image but I want to do.
And after that we give it a string an interpolation string right as we're used to using inside of here
we can just write CSX.
We don't need to do this camel case that we had to do in this style.
We can just write color goes to red and then we can write font size in our cardboard case goes to 28
pixels and now we actually are able to use this component the same way that we use it anywhere else.
So instead of using this Div I am instead going to use this text component and inside I'm going to say
I am a component and now if we look at our application we'll see that our component is updated and the
way that it works is what it does is it gives that component a unique string class.
So you see all this text that was suddenly added to our class of our div which is this text.
Well what it does is it generates this unique string for the class and then in the head it appends a
unique style CSF file so a style tag with that specificity specific to just this div.
So now because it's so specific and it's so unique these styles will never bleed across our application
because for every new style component that we create it gets a unique class name and then it will generate
a new style sheet with those unique styles pointing to this unique class name.
So now we couldn't name even our components the same names whatever it would not matter because those
styles are scoped to this uniquely generated class name for our components.
And this is possible because we're leveraging javascript to render our CSX and this is extremely powerful
because we get true isolation right scoping our selectors and CSX the way that we did.
Well even in SAS where we nested off everything as deep as it did is not shrewdly enough because we
still might accidentally make mistakes.
It's still possible.
Whereas using style components it's not because these are guaranteed to be unique class names whereas
when we write we can never guarantee that the class names or writing will 100 percent be unique.
It also becomes hard for us to sift through massive CSX files to remove unused styles.
Whereas here we know that if we're not using the style anymore we're literally removing the component
right.
So if we didn't need text anymore for example while we just would never see an instance of text in the
component that we're writing it to in the same way we're now able to also share this component anywhere
that it might be needed.
So we're actually able to reuse more of our code because it's almost like sharing properties right or
sharing constants as we're commonly used to inside of our components and react architecture.
The other great thing is that because we're rendering javascript unlike that previous style where we
had the style property we were mentioning that the H then all does not support all of the possible selectors
but because this is just C assess all of our selectors are supported and the great thing is that we're
also now suddenly able to leverage props in our styled components to render their CSX ruling.
This was extremely difficult to do with just CSX but we can now use javascript to control our styles
and how we would do that is very similar to how we can pass prompts into our regular components just
because our text is pretty much considered a component and what we pass to it would be for example we
passed and is active property and it's a boolean value and depending on whether or not is active as
true or false we render a different border so we could do border and now we actually are able to access
our profits by using a function now because this is a string we have to interpolate.
Right.
So we use our string interpolation and we say in this function I want to d structure off of the props
which are passed in right I want the prop of is active and what I'm going to return is a string where
I'm going to check if is active is true in fact I'm not gonna do it like this I mean I say is active
is true if it is then I want to return a 1 pixel solid black border if it's false I want to return a
3 pixel dotted green border and now if we save and we go back to our application we see that because
it's true our border was generated with the one pixel solid black but if I were to change this to force
what we suddenly see our dotted green border and this is extremely powerful because now our components
are able to leverage props to decide on their style which makes them even more specific it gives us
even a greater degree of control over our sea assess.
So with all of this we can now start converting our ReACT application using style components.